this planet's called the jewel of the
solar system
made up mostly of gases it could float
on water
should you find a reservoir 75 000 miles
across and just
as deep but what makes the planet so
recognizable
is its beautiful rings gray tan and
beige
they consist of dust rocks and ice some
bits are as tiny as greens of sand
others as large as skyscrapers the
planet i'm talking about is
saturn and right now earth is hurtling
toward it at breakneck
speed it all started on a regular day
over half a year ago
all of a sudden earth changed the course
it had been following for several
billion years
but instead of rushing towards the sun
it started to move away from the star
on second thoughts it might be for the
better we've got more time to find a
solution
earth used to move around the sun at a
speed of 67
000 miles per hour for some mysterious
reason
when it left its orbit the speed
remained the same
it means we're going to cover 746
million miles
separating our planet from saturn within
a year and three months
at first no one realized what had
happened
but a couple of hours later it became
obvious
despite the panic that engulfed earth's
inhabitants
nothing seemed to be out of the ordinary
but all too
soon it started to get colder and colder
astronomers forecast were pessimistic
people
started to leave their homes at the
poles move closer to the equator
most plant and animal species were
having a hard time
some of them went extinct even though we
were trying to save them in greenhouses
and special conservation parks
the sky changed dramatically in a week
we could see mars
clearly it looked like a big reddish
sphere hanging low over our heads
jupiter became as bright as the moon
once earth was as far away from the sun
as mars
days became twice dimmer than they used
to be
at first our planet's atmosphere was
acting as a barrier between people and
space
that's why we didn't feel the cold
immediately but seven days later
everyone who dared to leave their home
had to be cocooned in heavy winter
clothing
by that time the temperatures had
already dropped down to minus
degrees fahrenheit it got even colder
once our planet passed mars
and hurried through the asteroid belt
it's been one of the most dangerous
regions on our way so far
yes people could admire awesome
meteorite showers streaking the sky
but several space bodies managed to get
through the earth's atmosphere
they slammed into the ground flattening
mountains and leaving behind gigantic
craters
they caused tsunamis and triggered
earthquakes
right now most of the planet including
the oceans has already turned into an
icy desert
there's a lack of food and natural
resources we've built
underground towns and tunnels connecting
them our scientists work day and night
to find a way out of this situation
if they don't that's what's going to
happen the closer our planet will be to
saturn
the more the ringed planet will loom
over the horizon and the larger it'll
look
soon it'll already shine brighter than
the full moon
the massive yellowish brown orb will be
visible even during the day
but it'll look especially impressive at
night instead of sleeping
millions of people will spend hours
watching saturn grow
larger and larger one day the distance
between the two planets will become the
same
as the distance between earth and mars
used to be
saturn's disk will be about a quarter
the size of the full moon
its rings will be as large as two-thirds
of our natural satellite
soon after that our planet's speed will
start to increase
under the influence of saturn's
gravitational pull
the ringed planet is nine times wider
than earth
and its mass is almost 100 times greater
that's why instead of moving at a speed
of 29 miles per second
we'll be dashing through space at almost
40 miles per second
that's 2400 times the average car speed
saturn's gravity will influence the moon
more than that of earth
in no time we'll lose our satellite
it'll get catapulted into outer space
likely to go into an elliptical orbit
around the sun
if earth wasn't about to crash into
saturn in the nearest future
the moon could one day cross paths with
our planet again
no good would come out of such an
encounter but what's happening on
saturn's side of things
saturn is one of the largest planets in
the solar system second only to jupiter
even though the rings surrounding the
planet are huge they're rather thin
less than a mile thick still the main
rings are large enough to stretch from
earth to the moon
but how did the planet get these
breathtaking accessories
beyond the outer edge of the main rings
a b
and c there's something astronomers call
the
f ring several million years old it's
the weirdest one
this constantly shifting ring is made up
of icy material
and is incredibly complex its curves
twists and clumps of brighter substance
make it look as if it's braided saturn
has more than 50 confirmed moons
two of them pandora and prometheus flank
the f ring on either side
they weave outside and inside the ring
acting like shepherds
they heard ice particles into a 60 mile
thick band
but why are they performing this
elaborate dance
no one knows what scientists do know is
that when saturn's rings were evolving
icy material clumped together and formed
moonlets
some of them grew and turned into the
planet's largest moons
but two of them collided that's how the
mysterious ring
f appeared if the moonlits had only been
made up of small
icy particles the space collision would
have left a ring
and nothing else but they had dense
rocky cores
those remained intact and turned into
pandora and prometheus
people don't have any evidence saturn's
ever collided with another space body
our earth might be the first but before
crashing into the planet itself
we'll have to get through its rings
including the ring f
and no our planet won't just punch a
hole in them
saturn's rings are made of small
particles earth's gravity will start to
pull some of them out of their orbit
once we're close enough
it'll result in a long plume that will
reach our planet
and later when we squeeze through the
cloud of icy particles will drag after
earth
it won't have enough power to rid saturn
off its rings completely though they'll
continue to move around their home
planet
but their orbits will change and become
more elongated
there will be no more stunning bands
over time the rings could probably
settle down again
but earth won't give them such a chance
the collision with our planet
won't leave saturn unscathed if there's
still a possibility to sneak a peek at
the sky
people will be able to see the rings
disappear into nothingness
but not for long soon the largest chunks
of rock will start hitting the surface
of our planet
leaving behind lifeless land dotted with
craters
in the worst case scenario earth might
even collide with one of saturn's
numerous moons
but let's imagine we've passed through
this region in one piece
and now our planet's very close to
saturn
the gas giant might seem airy but
there's no way earth can fly through the
huge sphere and leave from the other
side
gravity is what keeps all that gas
together the very gravity that make our
planet speed up
the closer it is to the much bigger
space body the stronger the pool is
it'll cause the fault lines on earth to
rupture it'll also set off powerful
volcanic eruptions all over the world
and then with enormous force our planet
will
crash into saturn the planet's
atmospheres will get compressed
this will cause a dramatic and fast
temperature rise and in no time
the air will be on fire scientists claim
that saturn's core is dense
made up of iron and nickel and
surrounded by a rocky layer
but we'll never make it there earth will
burn in the bigger planet's atmosphere
after being literally torn apart our
beautiful blue-green world
will turn into billions of trillions of
tons of vaporized rock
pity maybe earth will become yet another
saturn's
ring instead of the ones it's ruined
sounds grim i know yeah we can't save
earth from saturn
but that's only a bad dream so maybe we
take that effort
and save us from a real threat climate
change
just saying